dockerfiles/README.md, before:

# Dockerfiles used to build the docs site

This directory contains all needed Dockerfiles to build and deploy the website.
It is heavily inspired by Docker's [publish tools](https://github.com/docker/docker.github.io/tree/publish-tools).

The following Dockerfiles are used.

| Dockerfile | Docker image | Description |
| ---------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| [`Dockerfile.bootstrap`](Dockerfile.bootstrap) | `gitlab-docs:bootstrap` | Contains all the dependencies that are needed to build the website. If the gems are updated and `Gemfile{,.lock}` changes, the image must be rebuilt. |
| [`Dockerfile.builder.onbuild`](Dockerfile.builder.onbuild) | `gitlab-docs:builder-onbuild` | Base image to build the docs website. It uses `ONBUILD` to perform all steps and depends on `gitlab-docs:bootstrap`. |
| [`Dockerfile.nginx.onbuild`](Dockerfile.nginx.onbuild) | `gitlab-docs:nginx-onbuild` | Base image to use for building documentation archives. It uses `ONBUILD` to perform all required steps to copy the archive, and relies upon its parent `Dockerfile.builder.onbuild` that is invoked when building single documentation achives (see the `Dockerfile` of each branch. |
| [`Dockerfile.archives`](Dockerfile.archives) | `gitlab-docs:archives` | Contains all the versions of the website in one archive. It copies all generated HTML files from every version in one location. |

## How to build the images

Build and tag all tooling images:

```sh
docker build -t registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gitlab-docs:bootstrap -f Dockerfile.bootstrap ../
docker build -t registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gitlab-docs:builder-onbuild -f Dockerfile.builder.onbuild ../
docker build -t registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gitlab-docs:nginx-onbuild -f Dockerfile.nginx.onbuild ../
```

For each image, there's a manual job under the `images` stage in
[`.gitlab-ci.yml`](../.gitlab-ci.yml) which can be invoked at will.

## Create an archive image for a single version

Now that all required images are created, you can build the archive for each
branch:

1. Create the branch if it doesn't exist. Name the branch by using the major
   minor versions:

    ```
    git checkout -b 10.5
    ```

1. Copy the Dockerfile.archive to Dockerfile:

    ```
    cp Dockerfile{.archive,}
    ```

1. Edit the Dockerfile and add the correct version:

    ```
    # The branch of the docs repo from step 1
    ARG VER=10.5

    # Replace the versions to match the stable branches of the upstream projects
    ARG BRANCH_EE=10-5-stable-ee
    ARG BRANCH_CE=10-5-stable
    ARG BRANCH_OMNIBUS=10-5-stable
    ARG BRANCH_RUNNER=10-5-stable

    FROM registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gitlab-docs:builder-onbuild AS builder
    FROM registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gitlab-docs:nginx-onbuild
    ```

Once you push, the `image:docker-stable` job will create a new Docker image
tagged with the branch name.

## Update the multiple archives image

With every new release on the 22nd, the archives Docker image should be updated.
Edit the following files and add the new version:

- `content/archives/index.md`
- [`Dockerfile.archives`](Dockerfile.archives)

Commit message:

Add more info about pushing to stable branches

dockerfiles/README.md, after:

# How the versioned website is built

This directory contains all needed Dockerfiles to build and deploy the
versioned website. It is heavily inspired by Docker's
[publish tools](https://github.com/docker/docker.github.io/tree/publish-tools).

The following Dockerfiles are used.

| Dockerfile | Docker image | Description |
| ---------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| [`Dockerfile.bootstrap`](Dockerfile.bootstrap) | `gitlab-docs:bootstrap` | Contains all the dependencies that are needed to build the website. If the gems are updated and `Gemfile{,.lock}` changes, the image must be rebuilt. |
| [`Dockerfile.builder.onbuild`](Dockerfile.builder.onbuild) | `gitlab-docs:builder-onbuild` | Base image to build the docs website. It uses `ONBUILD` to perform all steps and depends on `gitlab-docs:bootstrap`. |
| [`Dockerfile.nginx.onbuild`](Dockerfile.nginx.onbuild) | `gitlab-docs:nginx-onbuild` | Base image to use for building documentation archives. It uses `ONBUILD` to perform all required steps to copy the archive, and relies upon its parent `Dockerfile.builder.onbuild` that is invoked when building single documentation achives (see the `Dockerfile` of each branch. |
| [`Dockerfile.archives`](Dockerfile.archives) | `gitlab-docs:archives` | Contains all the versions of the website in one archive. It copies all generated HTML files from every version in one location. |

## How to build the images

Build and tag all tooling images:

```sh
docker build -t registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gitlab-docs:bootstrap -f Dockerfile.bootstrap ../
docker build -t registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gitlab-docs:builder-onbuild -f Dockerfile.builder.onbuild ../
docker build -t registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gitlab-docs:nginx-onbuild -f Dockerfile.nginx.onbuild ../
```

For each image, there's a manual job under the `images` stage in
[`.gitlab-ci.yml`](../.gitlab-ci.yml) which can be invoked at will.

## Create an archive image for a single version

Now that all required images are created, you can build the archive for each
branch:

1. Create the branch if it doesn't exist. Name the branch by using the major
   minor versions:

    ```
    git checkout -b 10.5
    ```

1. Copy the Dockerfile.archive to Dockerfile:

    ```
    cp Dockerfile{.archive,}
    ```

1. Edit the Dockerfile and add the correct version:

    ```
    # The branch of the docs repo from step 1
    ARG VER=10.5

    # Replace the versions to match the stable branches of the upstream projects
    ARG BRANCH_EE=10-5-stable-ee
    ARG BRANCH_CE=10-5-stable
    ARG BRANCH_OMNIBUS=10-5-stable
    ARG BRANCH_RUNNER=10-5-stable

    FROM registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gitlab-docs:builder-onbuild AS builder
    FROM registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gitlab-docs:nginx-onbuild
    ```

1. Test locally by building the image and running it:

    ```
    docker build -t docs:10.5 .
    docker run -it --rm -p 4000:4000 docs:10.5
    ```

1. Visit http://localhost:4000/10.5/ and make sure everything works correctly
1. Commit your changes and push (don't create a merge request)

Once you push, the `image:docker-stable` job will create a new Docker image
tagged with the branch name.

## Update the multiple archives image

With every new release on the 22nd, the archives Docker image should be updated.
Edit the following files and add the new version:

- `content/archives/index.md`
- [`Dockerfile.archives`](Dockerfile.archives)

## Porting new website changes to old versions

The website will keep changing and being improved. In order to consolidate
those changes to the stable branches, we'd need to merge master into them
from time to time.

```sh
git branch 10.5
git fetch origin master
git merge origin/master
```
